## I²C 传感器读取练习

在本练习中，我们将学习如何读取 I²C 总线上的传感器。

板子上有两个可以通过 I²C 总线读取的传感器：


| 外设                | Part number  | 参考                                                                   | Crate | 地址 |
|---------------------------|--------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------|---------|
| IMU                       | ICM-42670-P  | [Datasheet](https://invensense.tdk.com/download-pdf/icm-42670-p-datasheet/) | [Link](https://crates.io/crates/icm42670)   | 0x68 |
| 温湿度  | SHTC3        | [Datasheet](https://www.sensirion.com/en/environmental-sensors/humidity-sensors/digital-humidity-sensor-shtc3-our-new-standard-for-consumer-electronics/)            | [Link](https://crates.io/crates/shtcx)       | 0x70 |

任务是使用 crates.io 的现有驱动程序通过 I²C 读取温湿度传感器。之后，使用 `shared-bus` 通过同一 I²C 总线读取第二个传感器。第二个传感器的驱动程序在 `common/` 中。

### 第一部分：读取温湿度

创建温湿度传感器 SHTC3 的实例，每 600 毫秒读取并打印湿度和温度值。



`i2c-sensor-reading/examples/part_1.rs` 包含第一部分的解答。要运行这个解答，把 `--example part_1` 添加到命令里：

```console
$ cargo espflash --release --example part_1 --monitor /dev/SERIAL_DEVICE
```

`i2c-sensor-reading/src/main.rs` 包含代码框架，其中已经包含了第一部分所需的导入语句。

#### 步骤：

✅ Go to the `i2c-sensor-reading/` folder and open the relevant documentation with the following command:
  
```
$ cargo doc --open
```
 
✅ Define two pins, one as SDA and one as SCL. 

| Signal     | GPIO        |
|------------|-------------|
| SDA        | GPIO10      |
| SCL        | GPIO8       |

✅ Create an Instance of the I²C peripheral with the help of the documentation you generated. This requires a baud rate: You can use 400kHz, a default value.

✅ Use the `shtcx` driver crate, make an instance of the SHTC3 sensor passing the I²C instance into them. Check the documentation for guidance. 

✅ To check if the sensor is addressed correctly, read it's device ID and print the value.

#### Expected Output:
```
Device ID: 71
```

✅ Make a measurement, and read the sensor values and print them. Check the documentation for guidance on sensor methods. 

#### Expected Output:

```
TEMP: [local temperature] °C
HUM: [local humidity] %
```

❗ Some sensors need some time to pass between measurement and reading value. 
❗ Watch out for the expected units!





## Hints

* There are methods that turn the sensor values into the desired unit. 

### Part 2: Reading Accelerometer data. 

Using a bus manager, implement the second sensor. Read out its values and print the values from both sensors. 


Continue with your own solution from part one. Alternatively you can start with the provided partial solution of Part 1: `i2c-sensor-reading/examples/part_1.rs`.

`i2c-sensor-reading/examples/part_2.rs` contains a working solution of Part 2. You can consult it if you need help. 


#### Steps

✅ Import the driver crate for the ICM42670p.  

```rust
use imc42670p;
```

✅ Create an instance of the sensor.  




✅ Why does passing the same I²C instance to two sensors not work, despite both being on the same I²C bus?

<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>
  
This is an ownership issue. Every place in memory needs to be owned by something. If we pass the I²C bus to the SHTC3, the sensor owns the I²C bus. It can't be owned by another sensor. Borrowing is also not possible, because the I²C bus needs to be mutable. Both sensors need to be able to change it. We solve this problem by introducing a bus manager, that creates a number of proxies of the I²C bus. These proxies can than be owned by the respective sensors. 
</details>

✅ Import the bus manager crate. 

```rust
use shared_bus;
```

✅ Create an instance of a simple bus manager. Make two proxies and use them instead of the original I²C instance to pass to the sensors. 

✅ Read & print the device ID from both sensors. 

#### Expected Output:
```
Device ID SHTC3: 71
Device ID ICM42670p: 96
```


✅ Start the ICM42670p in low noise mode. 


✅ Read the gyroscope sensor values and print them with 2 decimal places alongside the temperature and humidity values. 

#### Expected Output:

```
GYRO: X: 0.00 Y: 0.00 Z: 0:00
TEMP: [local temperature] °C
HUM: [local humidity] %
```
